At this point, you've learned about creating components,
composing components together, and passing data to components.
However, we still haven't talked about what may be
the best part of React, state management.
Because of React's component model,
we're able to encapsulate the complexity of state management to individual components.
This allows us to build
a large application by building out a bunch of smaller applications,
which are really just components.
To add state to our components,
all we need to do is add a state property to our class whose value is an object.
This object represents the state of our component.
Each key in the object,
represents a distinct piece of state for this component.
Now, just as we did with props,
we can access the username property on our state by doing this,
dot state dot username.
What I really love about React is how it allows my brain
to separate two important, yet complex concepts.
First, how the component looks and second,
the current state of my application.
Because of the separation,
the UI or how the application looks is simply a function of the application state.
With React your two concerns are,
which state in my application and how does my UI change based off of that state.